README.md, before:

# Supertonic TTS Service

Text-to-Speech microservice with HTTP API and optional libp2p P2P networking.

## Quick Start

```bash
bun install
bun start
```

Server runs at `http://localhost:3000`

## API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint                    | Description                    |
| ------ | --------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| POST   | `/api/tts/synthesize`       | Synthesize text to speech      |
| POST   | `/api/tts/synthesize-mixed` | Synthesize mixed-language text |
| GET    | `/api/tts/voices`           | List available voices          |
| GET    | `/api/tts/health`           | Health check                   |

### POST `/api/tts/synthesize`

```json
{
  "text": "Hello world",
  "voice": "F1",
  "options": { "rate": "0%" }
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "audioBase64": "...",
  "detectedLanguage": "en",
  "savedPath": null
}
```

### POST `/api/tts/synthesize-mixed`

```json
{
  "taggedText": "<en>Hello</en><es>Hola</es>",
  "voice": "F1",
  "silenceDuration": 0.3
}
```

## Parameters

| Parameter      | Type    | Default  | Description                  |
| -------------- | ------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| `text`         | string  | required | Text to synthesize           |
| `voice`        | string  | `F1`     | Voice: `F1-F5`, `M1-M5`      |
| `language`     | string  | auto     | `en`, `ko`, `es`, `pt`, `fr` |
| `options.rate` | string  | `0%`     | Speed: `-50%` to `100%`      |
| `writeToFile`  | boolean | `false`  | Save to server output dir    |

## Environment Variables

| Variable         | Default    | Description            |
| ---------------- | ---------- | ---------------------- |
| `PORT`           | `3000`     | Server port            |
| `HOST`           | `0.0.0.0`  | Server host            |
| `TTS_OUTPUT_DIR` | `./output` | Audio output directory |

## Client Usage

```bash
# Run the example client
bun run client

# Custom server URL
SERVER_URL=http://localhost:3000 bun run client
```

The client saves audio files locally from the base64 response.

## Docker

```bash
docker build -t supertonic .
docker run -p 3000:3000 supertonic
```

Multi-platform (x86_64 and ARM64) supported.

## Build

```bash
# Standalone binary (x86_64 only)
bun run build

# Docker (recommended for ARM64)
bun run build:docker
```

> **Note**: ARM64 standalone binaries have native module compatibility issues. Use Docker for ARM64 deployment.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: allow `ORT_NUM_THREADS` to be externally configured and explicitly set ONNX session options for threading and execution mode.

README.md, after:

# Supertonic TTS Service

Text-to-Speech microservice with HTTP API and optional libp2p P2P networking.

## Quick Start

```bash
bun install
bun start
```

Server runs at `http://localhost:3000`

## API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint                    | Description                    |
| ------ | --------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| POST   | `/api/tts/synthesize`       | Synthesize text to speech      |
| POST   | `/api/tts/synthesize-mixed` | Synthesize mixed-language text |
| GET    | `/api/tts/voices`           | List available voices          |
| GET    | `/api/tts/health`           | Health check                   |

### POST `/api/tts/synthesize`

```json
{
  "text": "Hello world",
  "voice": "F1",
  "options": { "rate": "0%" }
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "audioBase64": "...",
  "detectedLanguage": "en",
  "savedPath": null
}
```

### POST `/api/tts/synthesize-mixed`

```json
{
  "taggedText": "<en>Hello</en><es>Hola</es>",
  "voice": "F1",
  "silenceDuration": 0.3
}
```

## Parameters

| Parameter      | Type    | Default  | Description                  |
| -------------- | ------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| `text`         | string  | required | Text to synthesize           |
| `voice`        | string  | `F1`     | Voice: `F1-F5`, `M1-M5`      |
| `language`     | string  | auto     | `en`, `ko`, `es`, `pt`, `fr` |
| `options.rate` | string  | `0%`     | Speed: `-50%` to `100%`      |
| `writeToFile`  | boolean | `false`  | Save to server output dir    |

## Environment Variables

| Variable         | Default    | Description            |
| ---------------- | ---------- | ---------------------- |
| `PORT`           | `3000`     | Server port            |
| `HOST`           | `0.0.0.0`  | Server host            |
| `TTS_OUTPUT_DIR` | `./output` | Audio output directory |

## Client Usage

```bash
# Run the example client
bun run client

# Custom server URL
SERVER_URL=http://localhost:3000 bun run client
```

The client saves audio files locally from the base64 response.

## Docker

```bash
docker build -t supertonic .
docker run -p 3000:3000 supertonic
```

Multi-platform (x86_64 and ARM64) supported.

## Build

```bash
# Standalone binary (x86_64 only)
bun run build

# Docker (recommended for ARM64)
bun run build:docker
```

> **Note**: ARM64 standalone binaries have native module compatibility issues. Use Docker for ARM64 deployment.

## Performance Tuning

If you encounter `pthread_setaffinity_np` errors or high CPU usage on limited devices (e.g., Raspberry Pi, restricted containers), you can configure the number of threads used by the ONNX Runtime:

```bash
# Force usage of 1 thread to avoid affinity issues
ORT_NUM_THREADS=1 bun run start
```

The service attempts to auto-detect a safe thread count (max 4), but explicit configuration may be required for some environments.

## License

MIT
